Sat Oct  3 07:24:34 EDT 2020 : I am a beginner / novice chess player [983 rating on chess.com at present].  This puts me in the 43rd percentile of 1.1 million accounts on chess.com. I have recently started learning the London system for white. I don't have a repertoire when playing with black. I just kind of respond ad hoc. My focus in the games I'm playing now is to avoid one-move blunders. I'm focusing on playing safely, noticing risk to my pieces and avoiding leaving pieces undefended by accident. When my opponent makes a blunder, which happens often at this level, I try to slow down, watch what I'm doing and carefully consolidate material advantages into winning positions.  

This is difficult for me, and I often struggle to close out games even when I am up substantial material. Frequently, I make mistakes from superior positions that equalize the game or give a better position to my opponent.  

Here is a link to my current statistics on [chess.com](https://www.chess.com/stats/live/rapid/rm_bryan).

This first game was a win where I avoided blundering while playing a Pirc defense as black. I put most of my thoughts in a lichess.com study:

<iframe width=600 height=371 src="https://lichess.org/study/embed/aQ4BsxZX/5qFpvqOJ#18" frameborder=0></iframe>

This is the same game, but with analysis on chess.com, as an experiment to see which tool works better. They're both nice. I'm not sure I have a preference.

<iframe id="7077562" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" style="width:100%;border:none;" src="//www.chess.com/emboard?id=7077562"></iframe><script>window.addEventListener("message",e=>{e['data']&&"7077562"===e['data']['id']&&document.getElementById(`${e['data']['id']}`)&&(document.getElementById(`${e['data']['id']}`).style.height=`${e['data']['frameHeight']+30}px`)});</script>

## Second Game
I played this game on chess.com as black with another Pirc defence and won despite failing to punish the premature e5 by my opponent.

<iframe id="7077692" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" style="width:100%;border:none;" src="//www.chess.com/emboard?id=7077692"></iframe><script>window.addEventListener("message",e=>{e['data']&&"7077692"===e['data']['id']&&document.getElementById(`${e['data']['id']}`)&&(document.getElementById(`${e['data']['id']}`).style.height=`${e['data']['frameHeight']+30}px`)});</script>

## Puzzles
At the start of the day, my puzzle rating was 1159. I think I get 25 puzzles a day, so I'll just go and see how well I can do.  
Sat Oct  3 10:45:40 EDT 2020 : I got 27 puzzles. 14 right and 13 wrong, my puzzle rating is now 1143.

## Third Game
This was a win as White on lichess where I used the London, kind of. I made 6 blunders, according to the computer, and my opponent made 7, so I came out on top. Again, struggled to find mate at the end with a significant material advantage.  

<iframe width=600 height=371 src="https://lichess.org/study/embed/aQ4BsxZX/4BWIX3PP" frameborder=0></iframe>