I want to do a personal project or set of projects that helps me get back up to speed in technical work, and also establishes some level of confidence that I can do helpful technical work consistently over several weeks or months without having a relapse or setback.
# Project Ideas
## Document the P21 Community API
1. Get and read the existing docs
2. Install Community
3. Document the process of writing RESTful code to send data to Community and store the results
	1. Python and Postgres
	2. Javascript, Java, R, Go, C#
4. Look for incompleteness and inaccuracy in current API docs
5. Write conceptual API documentation.
	1. Getting started tutorial for various languages
	2. In-depth look at authorization method options
	3. Deep dive into how Community responds when receiving work from multiple sources at once
	4. Full exploration of all the error states, error codes and troubleshooting specifics for each
	5. Explore available test data sets, make and document new sets with specific shapes to test specific Community functions
	6. Document the differences between how Community API works and how Enterprise API works. Specify which API endpoints will work with either, which are different. Focus on common endpoints that behave differently.
6. Document how to create Community API calls with:
	1. Swagger
	2. Postman
	3. Stoplight

### Scoring

- Fun = 5 / 5
- Hard = 5 / 5
- Applicable = 5 / 5
- Impressive = 5 / 5

## Document the OpenWeather API with a variety of tools and frameworks
## Solve ProjectEuler problems and document the process
## Contribute to Berkely Open Infrastructure for Networked Computing Developer documentation
https://boinc.berkeley.edu/trac/wiki/WikiMeta
# Criteria
## Fun
More fun is better. 
## Hard
Harder is better. If any of these ideas turn out to be "too hard", I'm probably not ready to go back to work.
## Applicable
Closer to the nature of tasks in API documentation is better.
## Impressive
Creates a work product where the quality is easy to see.
