---
layout: post
title:  "Rabbits and Recurrence Relations"
date:   2025-07-25
---

[This](https://rosalind.info/problems/fib/) problem asks:

> **Given**: Positive integers n≤40 and k≤5.

> **Return**: The total number of rabbit pairs that will be present after n months, if we begin with 1 pair and in each generation, every pair of reproduction-age rabbits produces a litter of k rabbit pairs (instead of only 1 pair)

<!--break-->

# Restate the problem

I'm going to get two numbers that define a system of reproducing rabbits. The first number is how many generations of rabbits I need to keep track of. The second number is the size of each litter of rabbits.

The problem text includes the hint that if I track a population of rabbits for 5 generations with a litter size of 3, I should expect a final population of 19 pairs of rabbits.

# First, getting values from a file
My first challenge was to read the two numbers from the downloaded file and assign them to variables.

That didn't seem like it should be too hard, but I couldn't get it to work, so I looked online and found help [here](https://scipython.com/books/book2/chapter-2-the-core-python-language-i/examples/reading-numbers-from-a-file/).

The article didn't solve my exact case, but it was close enough that I was able to figure out this method:

```python 
file = open(file_path, "r").readline().split(' ')
n = int(file[0])
k = int(file[1])
```

## Writing a Fibonacci function with variable offspring
First, I wrote a function to calculate the number of rabbits in a system when there are two offspring rabbits per generation. That was the Nth generation of the Fibonacci sequence for N generations. The [Fibonacci sequence](https://rosalind.info/glossary/fibonacci-sequence/) is a fascinating [recurrence relation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recurrence_relation) that appears throughout nature.

I struggled to modify the Fibonacci function so that it took n of 5 and k of 3 and returned 19, so I went looking for help.

I found [this fancy article](https://blog.devgenius.io/interpreting-fibonacci-series-in-python-9e373470885b) on ways to calculate the Fibonacci sequence in Python, but all the examples there assumed a litter size of 2. I tried to work the litter size into my function, but couldn't get 5 and 3 to return 19.

Then I found this amazing [pythontutor visualization tool](https://pythontutor.com/render.html#code=def%20fib%28n,%20k%29%3A%0A%20%20%20%20prev1,%20prev2%20%3D%201,%201%0A%20%20%20%20for%20i%20in%20range%282,%20n%29%3A%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20current%20%3D%20prev1%20%2B%20k%20*%20prev2%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20prev2%20%3D%20prev1%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20prev1%20%3D%20current%0A%20%20%20%20return%20current%0Aprint%28fib%285,%203%29%29&cumulative=false&curInstr=0&heapPrimitives=nevernest&mode=display&origin=opt-frontend.js&py=3&rawInputLstJSON=%5B%5D&textReferences=false)
which shows you exactly what all the frames and objects are at every step of execution of your code. With that, I was able to figure out that the key to calculating populations
of rabbits after n generations with litter sizes of k is this:

```python
def fib(n, k):
    prev1, prev2 = 1, 1
    for i in range(2, n):
        current = prev1 + k * prev2
        prev2 = prev1
        prev1 = current
    return current
```

You can see my full code set for this challenge [here](https://github.com/rmbryan71/rosalind/blob/main/solution-code/fib.py).

# Conclusion
The problem parameters that I downloaded from Project Rosalind were: 33 4.
So my code needed to figure out how many pairs of rabbits there would be after 33 generations of rabbits producing 4 rabbits per litter.

Not surprising to me, the result was a very large number of rabbits.

7,334,743,797,805 **pairs** of rabbits. That's over 14 trillion rabbits. Trillion with a "T". Of course, that's assuming that none of these rabbits never die, and they never get too old to have more rabbits.


