---
layout: post
title:  "Rabbits and Recurrence Relations"
date:   2025-07-18
---

[This](https://rosalind.info/problems/fib/) problem asks:

> **Given**: Positive integers n≤40 and k≤5.

> **Return**: The total number of rabbit pairs that will be present after n months, if we begin with 1 pair and in each generation, every pair of reproduction-age rabbits produces a litter of k rabbit pairs (instead of only 1 pair)

# First impression
The [Fibonacci sequence](https://rosalind.info/glossary/fibonacci-sequence/) and 
[dynamic programming](https://rosalind.info/glossary/dynamic-programming/) are both familiar topics, but the 
challenge here is that the rabbits have more than one pair of offspring per month. Figuring out how to calculate
the total rabbit population with variable offspring counts seems like the core of this challenge.

# Solution steps
## Reading from a file
My first challenge was to read the two numbers from the downloaded file and assign them to variables.

That didn't seem like it should be too hard, but I couldn't get it to work, so I looked online and found help [here](https://scipython.com/books/book2/chapter-2-the-core-python-language-i/examples/reading-numbers-from-a-file/).

The article didn't solve my exact case, but it was close enough that I was able to figure out this method:
```aiignore
    file = open(file_path, "r").readline().split(' ')
    n = int(file[0])
    k = int(file[1])
```

## Writing a Fibonacci function with variable offspring
First, I wrote a function to calculate the number of rabbits in a two-offspring generation, and that was easy.
It's just the Nth generation of the Fibonacci sequence for N generations.

The challenge includes a hit that the correct answer for a system of 5 generations with a litter size of 3 is 19 rabbits.

I struggled to write a Fibonacci function that took n of 5 and k of 3 and returned 19, so I went looking for help.

I found [this fancy article](https://blog.devgenius.io/interpreting-fibonacci-series-in-python-9e373470885b) on ways to calculate the Fibonacci sequence in Python, but all of the
examples there assumed a litter size of 2. I tried to work the litter size into my function, but couldn't get 5 and 3 to return 19.

Then I turned to this amazing [pythontutor visualization tool](https://pythontutor.com/render.html#code=def%20fib%28n,%20k%29%3A%0A%20%20%20%20prev1,%20prev2%20%3D%201,%201%0A%20%20%20%20for%20i%20in%20range%282,%20n%29%3A%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20current%20%3D%20prev1%20%2B%20k%20*%20prev2%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20prev2%20%3D%20prev1%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20prev1%20%3D%20current%0A%20%20%20%20return%20current%0Aprint%28fib%285,%203%29%29&cumulative=false&curInstr=0&heapPrimitives=nevernest&mode=display&origin=opt-frontend.js&py=3&rawInputLstJSON=%5B%5D&textReferences=false)
which shows you exactly what all the frames and objects are at every step of execution of your code. With that, I was able to figure out how to calculate populations
of rabbits after n generations with litter sizes of k.

You can see my code [here](https://github.com/rmbryan71/rosalind/blob/main/solution-code/fib.py).

# Conclusion
The problem parameters that I downloaded from Project Rosalind were: 33 4.
So my code needed to figure out how many pairs of rabbits there would be after 33 generations of rabbits producing 4 rabbits per litter.

Not suprising to me, the result was a very large number of rabbits.

7,334,743,797,805 rabbits. That's 7 trillion, with a "T". Of course, that's assuming that none of these rabbits never die
and they never get too old to have more rabbits.


